### [IEA DATA Discussion Board Here](https://github.com/IEA-Data/IEA_Data_Guidance_Doc/discussions)

- Add explanatory text here

## Mission:

To facilitate the practice of IEAs through deliberate data management and FAIR (findability, accessibility, interoperability, and reusability) data practices. The team will emphasize identifying, collecting, and where necessary developing and codifying best practices for data stewardship, including metadata, web discovery and access, long-term preservation, and data reuse and reproducibility.

## Vision:

IEA practitioners have shared access to data-stewardship best practices, data, and code that are kept current through ongoing communication and collaboration, within and across regions.

## Background:

In practice, Integrated Ecosystem Assessments are customized implementations of a generalized approach, rather than a single, prescriptive set of steps that must be followed. That said, a common element across all IEAs is a critical dependence on data to scope specific problems, develop indicators, describe status and trends, and drive modeling applications to develop end-user products. Common data-related concerns are several-fold. Data-driven workflows may involve many contributors, within and across administrative boundaries, making it important to share data easily while maintaining data provenance. In many instances, as with recurring Ecosystem Status Reports, automated workflows streamline the IEA process, increasing efficiency, and allowing science staff to focus on the science. As IEA products are meant to inform management decision making, it is especially important that the data and workflows be open, to facilitate transparency and repeatability. Finally, there are higher-level administrative drivers for data stewardship, such as the 2013 White House Public Access to Research Results (PARR) memorandum and NOAA’s formal response to it, conferring responsibilities for thoughtful data stewardship. Adopting open-science approaches to the practice of IEAs, and in particular to IEA data stewardship, can provide a framework that will address many related data problems and lead to efficient, effective, and reproducible IEAs.

## Plan Summary:

The goal of the Data Working Group is to facilitate increased communication amongst IEA data practitioners across IEA regions by creating a centralized web space for recommended approaches for data management, product creation code, and indicator catalogs. The Data Working Group proposes to stand up a community populated and run GitHub space (Priority Goal #1) that is accessible by the IEA community to house established code, discussion boards, and a library of indicator information (Priority Goal #3). This effort will not be successful without the participation of the entire IEA community. Frequent conversations with each of the regions via working group participants during the creation of the GitHub space will be critical in making the entire IEA community aware of this resource as well as incorporating user feedback into the products to maximize the usefulness and adapt to changing data and technology needs over the next 3 years (Priority Goal #2).

## NOAA README

This repository is a scientific product and is not official
communication of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, or
the United States Department of Commerce. All NOAA GitHub project code
is provided on an ‘as is’ basis and the user assumes responsibility for
its use. Any claims against the Department of Commerce or Department of
Commerce bureaus stemming from the use of this GitHub project will be
governed by all applicable Federal law. Any reference to specific
commercial products, processes, or services by service mark, trademark,
manufacturer, or otherwise, does not constitute or imply their
endorsement, recommendation or favoring by the Department of Commerce.
The Department of Commerce seal and logo, or the seal and logo of a DOC
bureau, shall not be used in any manner to imply endorsement of any
commercial product or activity by DOC or the United States Government.

## NOAA License

Software code created by U.S. Government employees is not subject to
copyright in the United States (17 U.S.C. §105). The United
States/Department of Commerce reserve all rights to seek and obtain
copyright protection in countries other than the United States for
Software authored in its entirety by the Department of Commerce. To this
end, the Department of Commerce hereby grants to Recipient a
royalty-free, nonexclusive license to use, copy, and create derivative
works of the Software outside of the United States.

<img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/nmfs-general-modeling-tools/nmfspalette/main/man/figures/noaa-fisheries-rgb-2line-horizontal-small.png" alt="NOAA Fisheries" height="75"/>

[U.S. Department of Commerce](https://www.commerce.gov/) \| [National
Oceanographic and Atmospheric Administration](https://www.noaa.gov) \|
[NOAA Fisheries](https://www.fisheries.noaa.gov/)
